for I considered all this in my heart so
that I could declare it all but the
righteous and the wise and their works
are in the hand of God people know
neither love nor hatred by anything they
see before them all things come alike to
all one event happens to the righteous
and the wicked to the good the clean and
the unclean to him who sacrifices and
him who does not sacrifice as is the
good so is the sinner he who takes an
oath as he who fears an oath this is an
evil in all that is done under the Sun
that one thing happens to all truly the
hearts of the sons of men are full of
evil madness is in their hearts while
they live and after that they go to the
dead but for him who is joined to all
the living there is hope for a living
dog is better than a dead lion for the
living know that they will die but the
dead know nothing and they have no more
reward for the memory of them is
forgotten also their love their hatred
and their Envy have now perished never
more will they have a share in anything
done under the Sun go eat your bread
with joy and drink your wine with a
merry heart for God has already accepted
your works that your garments always be
white and let your head lack know
live joyfully with the wife whom you
love all the days of your vain life
which he has given you under the Sun all
your days of vanity for that is your
portion in life and in the labor which
you perform under the Sun whatever your
hand finds to do do it with your might
for there is no work or device or
knowledge or wisdom in the grave where
you're going I returned and saw Under
the Sun that the race is not to the
Swift nor the battle to the strong nor
bread to the wise nor riches to men of
understanding nor favour to men of skill
but time and chance happened to them all
for man also does not know his time like
fish taken in a cruel net like birds
caught in a snare so the sons of men are
snared in an evil time when it falls
suddenly upon them this wisdom I have
also seen under the Sun and it seemed
great to me there was a little city with
few men in it and a great king came
against it besieged it and built great
snares around it now there was found in
it a poor wise man and he by his wisdom
delivered the city yet no one remembered
the same poor man
then I said wisdom is better than
strength nevertheless the poor man's
wisdom is despised and his words are not
heard words of the wise spoken quietly
should be heard rather than the shouts
of a ruler of fools wisdom is better
than weapons of war but one sinner
destroys much good
[Music]